[Music]
five runners take their positions four
on the tracks are ten fastest objects
created by humans three fans are worried
complete silence at the stadium - who
will be the winner one the fastest
human-made object ever built go in tenth
place we have a missile or rather air
force hypersonic Rockets left this is a
special mechanism on Rails with a rocket
engine created to test rockets and other
space objects its top speed is just shy
of 6600 miles per hour this rocket sled
is so fast you won't see it if you blink
a 10 miles long test track the longest
of its kind was built specifically for
this sled far ahead the NASA x-43a or
hyper X unmanned supersonic flying
vehicle is in ninth place
this bird flies at a speed of 6,800
miles per hour which is eight point two
times the speed of sound however it lags
behind its closest rival by almost two
and a half times eighth place is sheer
between two sisters space shuttles
Columbia and discovery by the way
Columbia was the first successful
reusable ship in the history of space
exploration to stay in orbit these
shuttles had to reach a speed of 17,500
miles per hour by the way this necessary
speed for stable orbiting applies to all
shuttles at this speed the crew could
watch the Sun Rise every 45 minutes both
shuttles successfully completed more
than 50 space missions
and we rise higher and higher from the
earth and what do we see here this
participant is confidently taking the
seventh place this is Apollo 10 the
spacecraft that NASA used for rehearsal
of the moon landing when returning to
Earth from the lunar orbit in 1969
gravity accelerated Apollo 10 to a
velocity of nearly 25,000 miles per hour
at the altitude of 400,000 feet the
Guinness world record states that Apollo
10 holds the record for the fastest a
human has ever traveled
however the Apollo 10 mission report
states the maximum speed and entry was
twenty four thousand eight hundred
sixteen miles per hour in sixth place
far in outer space
the Stardust space probe floods in 1999
NASA sent this probe to collect samples
from the Comet wild 2 and it brought
these samples to earth already in 2006
in space it developed its maximum speed
of 28,000 860 miles per hour seven years
is not so bad for a delivery service
given that the probe flew 2.8 billion
miles it's like a round-trip from the
earth to the Sun 14 times now we're near
the dwarf planet Pluto yes recently this
baby was excluded from the list of
planets of the solar system around which
NASA's new Horizons of automatic
interplanetary station fly's ranking
fifth on our list it's not even a ship
but a station which during its mission
has developed a maximum speed of 36,000
400 miles per hour in 2006 NASA sent New
Horizons to study Pluto and for 13 years
this poor station was just flying and
studying the lonely
and cold dwarf planet but in January
it flew to study the nearest asteroid
which according to conspiracy theories
was a real UFO but that's another story
the 4th place goes to Voyager 1 this
spacecraft was launched to study the
furthest part of the solar system back
in 1977 and in 2013 it entered
interstellar space at a speed of 38,000
miles per hour
Voyager 1 covers a distance of about 335
million miles each year in 2020 it will
reach nearly 14 billion miles from us
which makes it the most distant object
from the earth made by humans it plans
to complete its mission in 2025 although
a Voyager 1 is not the champion of our
race it can rightfully be considered the
most enduring participant
third place goes to the Galileo
spacecraft engineered and launched by
NASA in 1989 to study the atmosphere of
Jupiter
Galileo's 14 year mission ended in 2003
when the spacecraft was deliberately
sent into Jupiter's atmosphere before
crashing it managed to develop a speed
of 108 miles per hour at that speed one
could drive around the earth at the
equator in 14 minutes assuming there
were bridges across all the oceans or to
the moon and back in only five hours the
second place is shared by two space
probes helios one and helios two
go figure the first develop a speed of
147 900 miles per hour and the second
150 3,500 miles per hour both devices
were launched in the 1970s by NASA and
are currently in the sun's orbit both
send information about solar dust solar
storms plasma and other hot stuff to
earth and the champion of our
competition is Parker's Solar pro like
Helios it studies the Sun but it flies
at an incredible speed of 200 13,000 200
miles per hour in October 2018 it set
the record at a close distance to the
Sun with each lap in its orbit the
Parker accelerates and is estimated to
reach the speed of four hundred thirty
thousand miles per hour by 2024 in
general as you understand the closer to
the stars
the faster okay let's lose the track
announcer guy for now see you next time
yeah yeah yeah since we found ourselves
in the vast expanses of space it seems
like a good idea to learn what the
fastest object in the universe is and
then you'll find out all about the speed
that cannot be overcome in 2014
astronomers from the harvard-smithsonian
Center for Astrophysics recorded the
highest speed in the universe and no
this is not a you
fo but a piece of plasma that flew out
of a black hole according to the
calculations this plasma moves in a
spiral and forms a cone at a speed of
nearly 6 million miles per hour
fortunately this incredible force flies
far from us in another galaxy 50 million
light years away and 1 light year is
well I won't bore you with such a huge
number of zeros simply put the distance
you cover within one year at the speed
of light is one Lightyear and the speed
of light is about 186,000 miles per
second you do the math so this is the
speed limit for everything in the
universe and what is most interesting no
object that has mass according to the
laws of physics can move at such a speed
particles of light or photons do not
have mass so they are the only things
that can photons only need 8 minutes and
20 seconds to reach our planet from the
Sun but let's imagine hmm that humanity
someday creates a ship that can
accelerate to the speed of light believe
me this will be the most incredible
experience of mankind
I invite you on board we start the
engines are you ready we pick up speed
achieve the speed of light
the ship falls to pieces in a couple of
seconds the fact is that at such a speed
even several hydrogen atoms will crash
with such force that it would form a
dose of radiation tens of thousands of
times stronger than a person could
withstand a ship Armour which could
withstand such a strong impact of
radiation hasn't yet been invented okay
attempt number two now our ship is
equipped with a force field and nothing
can destroy it
here we are gaining speed again we reach
the light limit and overcome it by just
four thousandths of a mile per second at
this moment something unbelievable
happens the law of cause and effect is
violated first goes the cause and then
the effect in simple terms this means
that you should first become hungry and
then eat a burger it can't be that you
eat a burger and then you get hungry but
on our ship it can imagine that having
overcome the speed of light we are
catching up with the photons that our
Sun let out eight minutes ago our speed
increases and we outrace the photons
from yesterday than a week ago than a
month than a year in fact we are flying
through the passage of time into the
past when we approach the speed of light
time on our ships slows down and when we
overcome it time goes backward but this
is not even the worst according to the
theory of relativity the faster the
speed the more mass of the object
increases and its size decreases our
ship will become infinitely heavy and
infinitely small do you know what
happens when any object begins to
endlessly become heavy ding ding black
hole a huge black
we'll begin to absorb everything around
and increase indefinitely it doesn't
sound very good but we just wanted to
fly even if humanity invents a way to
travel at such speeds we won't need it
we will learn to overcome space rather
with the help of portals for rabbit
holes thanks to which we can find
ourselves anywhere in the universe in a
split second ooh blows my mind how about
you hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a fred and here are some other cool
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the bright side of life